Boot is short for bootstrap.The BIOS is software stored on a flash memory chip. Besides controlling the boot process, the BIOS provides a basic configuration interface for the PC's hardware components. In that interface, you can configure such things as the order to read drives during boot and how fast the processor should be allowed to run.


The BIOS is special software that interfaces the major hardware components of your computer with the operating system. It is usually stored on a Flash memory chip on the motherboard, but sometimes the chip is another type of ROM.

When you turn on your computer, the BIOS does several things. This is its usual sequence:
1.	Check the CMOS Setup for custom settings
2.	Load the interrupt handlers and device drivers
3.	Initialize registers and power management
4.	Perform the power-on self-test (POST)
5.	Display system settings
6.	Determine which devices are bootable
7.	Initiate the bootstrap sequence

The following is a summary of the boot process in a PC:
1.	The power button activates the power supply in the PC, sending power to the motherboard and other components.
2.	The PC performs a power-on self-test (POST). The POST is a small computer program within the BIOS that checks for hardware failures. A single beep after the POST signals that everything's okay. Other beep sequences signal a hardware failure, and PC repair specialists compare these sequences with a chart to determine which component has failed.
3.	The PC displays information on the attached monitor showing details about the boot process. These include the BIOS manufacturer and revision, processor specs, the amount of RAM installed, and the drives detected. Many PCs have replaced displaying this information with a splash screen showing the manufacturer's logo. You can turn off the splash screen in the BIOS settings if you'd rather see the text.
4.	The BIOS attempts to access the first sector of the drive designated as the boot disk. The first sector is the first kilobytes of the disk in sequence, if the drive is read sequentially starting with the first available storage address. The boot disk is typically the same hard disk or solid-state drive that contains your operating system. You can change the boot disk by configuring the BIOS or interrupting the boot process with a key sequence (often indicated on the boot screens).
5.	The BIOS confirms there's a bootstrap loader, or boot loader, in that first sector of the boot disk, and it loads that boot loader into memory (RAM). The boot loader is a small program designed to find and launch the PC's operating system.
6.	Once the boot loader is in memory, the BIOS hands over its work to the boot loader, which in turn begins loading the operating system into memory.
7.	When the boot loader finishes its task, it turns control of the PC over to the operating system. Then, the OS is ready for user interaction.



BIOS -> boot(bootstrap) loader -> Operating System