Maven 
Maven :
	Build Tool 
	Project management tool 	
	Java Based



One of the devOps tool for a better project management. Maven is written in Java and is used to build projects written in C#, Scala, Ruby, etc. Based on the Project Object Model (POM).

Handles :
  Builds,Documentation,Dependencies,Reports ,SCMs,Distribution,Releases,Mailing list

Download dependencies


The build tool compiles and packages the code into an executable form.
A Maven plugin refers to the group of goals that may or may not be in the same phase


Phases of the build life cycle: :
	Compile, Test-Compile, Test, Package , Integration-Test, Verify, Install , Deploy
	

Pre-site
Site
Post-site
Site-deploy

There are two types of Maven Plugins:
Build plugins – These plugins are executed during the build and are configured in the <build/> element of pom.xml
Reporting plugins – These plugins are executed during the stage generation and are configured in the <reporting/> element of the pom.xml.


The order of inheritance in Maven is:
Settings
CLI parameters
Parent POM
Project POM


The different types of dependency scopes are:

Compile
Provided
Runtime
Test
System
Import



Primary Artifacts:
	These are like the primary dependencies which will have thier own pom and further dependencies.
Secondary Artifacts
	secondary artifact is not expected to have a remote pom and has thus never has any dependencies. With an extra tag </classifier>
		
		

To verify the downloaded artifacts Maven computes the md5 and sha1 checksum for that artifact and compares it to the values found in the checksum files located at $ARTIFACT_URL.md5, or $ARTIFACT_URL.sha1, respectively.


Snapshot :
The idea is that you can continuously push your latest changes to 3.0.0-SNAPSHOT and anyone depending on it will get the latest changes every time they build their project. Then, after a few iterations, and everyone is happy the latest state of 3.0.0-SNAPSHOT, it can be permanently released as 3.0.0, and rapid development can continue on 3.0.1-SNAPSHOT.



Check one pom.xml and see what all are defined in pom in each phase